README.md, before:

# Job-Change-of-Data-Scientists
# Overview
Every `Big data` company risks losing their technical resources following initial training as they move on to new jobs. It's very costly both in time and money for the companies to train people and then fill in the vacant technical positions. The objective of this project is to analyze the cause of turnover and come up with solutions to both predict it and prevent it from happening.
This helps `Big Data` companies to reduce the cost and time as well as the quality of training or planning the courses and categorization of candidates.

# Dataset
The [data set](https://www.kaggle.com/arashnic/hr-analytics-job-change-of-data-scientists) is taken from Kaggle<br>

The dataset is divided into train and test with same features with the exclusion of the target in the test data.

* The dataset is imbalanced.<br>
* Most features are categorical (Nominal, Ordinal, Binary), some with high cardinality.<br>
* Missing imputation that must be addressed in the pipeline.

## Features

|Feature|Description|
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
|enrollee_id|Unique ID for candidate|
|city|City code|
|city_ development _index|Developement index of the city (scaled)|
|gender|Gender of candidate|
|relevent_experience|Relevant experience of candidate|
|enrolled_university|Type of University course enrolled if any|
|education_level|Education level of candidate|
|major_discipline|Education major discipline of candidate|
|experience|Candidate total experience in years|
|company_size|No of employees in current employer's company|
|company_type|Type of current employer|
|lastnewjob|Difference in years between previous job and current job|
|training_hours|training hours completed|
|target|0 – Not looking for job change, 1 – Looking for a job change|

## data structure
We created the below database structure for the above dataset<br>
Scripts for generating [database](createDatabase.sql) and [tables](createTables.sql)

## ERD
<img src="ERD_hrds.jpeg" alt="HR data science database" height="500" width="500"> 

# Technologies Used
## Data Cleaning and Analysis
Pandas will be used to clean the data and perform an exploratory analysis. Further analysis will be completed using Python.

## Database Storage
Postgres is the database we intend to use, and we will integrate Tableau to display the data.

## Machine Learning
SciKitLearn is the ML library we'll be using to create a classifier. We will be using the Logistic regression model. This decision was based on the type of data that we are working.

## Dashboard
We will be using HTML, CSS and Java Script to display our findings on a webpage. Plot libraries will be used for displaying graphs.

# Project Management
## Team roles - 1st segment
* `Square`: YI XIN ZHANG. (Set up Github ripository)<br>
* `Triangle`: Pegah. (Mock Machine learning)<br>
* `Circle`: goes to Faramarz (Mock-up database)<br>
* `X-Role`: Adanma Eleweke (Which tools to choose for the project)<br>

## Communications
- We use the Breakout rooms zoom meetings for team meetings<br>
- For the daily communications we have created a slack channel.<br> 
- We also have exchanged emails for sharing repository.<br>

# Summary
The goal of the project is to find out which feature mostly affects the candidate decision of staying or leaving the company.

Commit message:

update read.md for ML and Data Cleaning

README.md, after:

# Job-Change-of-Data-Scientists
# Overview
Every `Big data` company risks losing their technical resources following initial training as they move on to new jobs. It's very costly both in time and money for the companies to train people and then fill in the vacant technical positions. The objective of this project is to analyze the cause of turnover and come up with solutions to both predict it and prevent it from happening.
This helps `Big Data` companies to reduce the cost and time as well as the quality of training or planning the courses and categorization of candidates.

# Dataset
The [data set](https://www.kaggle.com/arashnic/hr-analytics-job-change-of-data-scientists) is taken from Kaggle<br>

The dataset is divided into train and test with same features with the exclusion of the target in the test data.

* The dataset is imbalanced.<br>
* Most features are categorical (Nominal, Ordinal, Binary), some with high cardinality.<br>
* Missing imputation that must be addressed in the pipeline.

## Features

|Feature|Description|
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
|enrollee_id|Unique ID for candidate|
|city|City code|
|city_ development _index|Developement index of the city (scaled)|
|gender|Gender of candidate|
|relevent_experience|Relevant experience of candidate|
|enrolled_university|Type of University course enrolled if any|
|education_level|Education level of candidate|
|major_discipline|Education major discipline of candidate|
|experience|Candidate total experience in years|
|company_size|No of employees in current employer's company|
|company_type|Type of current employer|
|lastnewjob|Difference in years between previous job and current job|
|training_hours|training hours completed|
|target|0 – Not looking for job change, 1 – Looking for a job change|

## data structure
We created the below database structure for the above dataset<br>
Scripts for generating [database](createDatabase.sql) and [tables](createTables.sql)

## ERD
<img src="ERD_hrds.jpeg" alt="HR data science database" height="500" width="500"> 

# Technologies Used
## Data Cleaning and Analysis
Pandas will be used to clean the data and perform an exploratory analysis. Further analysis will be completed using Python.

## Database Storage
Postgres is the database we intend to use, and we will integrate Tableau to display the data.
## Data Prepration 
### Exploritory Analysis
The train data set contains 19158 rows and 13 columns. When we examine the data, there were a lot of NA Values in the data set, then we deciced to use random sampling to fill in the features that have more than 30% of null value, then replace the null values in other columns with Others / Unknown. For experience and training hours, we thought about bin the years of exeperience and hours to intervals, later we realize to achieve a better modelling, the data needs to be more diverse, so we kept those two columns as it is. 

## Machine Learning
SciKitLearn is the ML library we'll be using to create a classifier. We will be using the Logistic regression model. This decision was based on the type of data that we are working.
Coding: Pegha 


The data set appears to be classification problem since the target is only binary, whether the person decides to stay or leave the company(0 and 1).To solve classification problems, we used 4 models we have used in the Machine learning* and we aim to pick the best model to predict our hypothesis. 
1. logicstic regression:Logistic regression can be used for both regression and classification problems. Unlike regression which uses Least Squares, the model uses Maximum Likelihood to fit a sigmoid-curve on the target variable distribution.
2. Naive Bayes:The model works well with a small training dataset, provided all the classes of the categorical predictor are present.
3. Kneasest Neigbors (KNK):K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) algorithm predicts based on the specified number (k) of the nearest neighboring data points. Here, the pre-processing of the data is significant as it impacts the distance measurements directly.It is also best to predict similarities patterns 
4. random forest :Random Forest is also a popular method of classification than regression models, and it is a reliable ensemble of multiple Decision Trees. 

Above models are suitable for our agenda and the we compared the models to see which one is the best model based on Accuracy, Precision and Recall metrics.


# Project Management
## Team roles - 1st segment
* `Square`: YI XIN ZHANG. (Set up Github ripository)<br>
* `Triangle`: Pegah. (Mock Machine learning)<br>
* `Circle`: goes to Faramarz (Mock-up database)<br>
* `X-Role`: Adanma Eleweke (Which tools to choose for the project)<br>

## Communications
- We use the Breakout rooms zoom meetings for team meetings<br>
- For the daily communications we have created a slack channel.<br> 
- We also have exchanged emails for sharing repository.<br>

# Summary
The goal of the project is to find out which feature mostly affects the candidate decision of staying or leaving the company. 


References 
*https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2020/11/popular-classification-models-for-machine-learning/
